Remarks as Prepared for Delivery

Thank you, Mr. Attorney General.

Two months ago, the Attorney General and I pledged to employ every tool in the government’s arsenal, at every stage of the fentanyl supply chain, in every part of the globe, to protect American communities.

Today’s announcement is a down payment on that pledge.  It breaks new ground by attacking the fentanyl supply chain at its origin: for the first time we are charging Chinese chemical companies and their employees for conspiring to manufacture and export fentanyl precursor chemicals and circumvent customs laws.

Fentanyl poses a singular threat not only because the smallest of doses can be lethal but also because fentanyl does not occur in nature—it is entirely man-made, and in potentially limitless supply. 

So, with our partners across government and across the globe, the Department of Justice is working relentlessly to dismantle the global supply-and-delivery chain that floods fentanyl into American communities.  

The fentanyl supply chain all too often begins in China, where the chemical ingredients for fentanyl are produced and exported by the ton.

We allege the Chinese chemical companies charged today combined scientific know-how with deception to circumvent customs barriers and ship precursors onto our shores and Mexico’s.

The cartels use those ingredients to manufacture fentanyl, which they then push into our communities—using social media to market pills and cryptocurrency to launder profits.

Today’s charges make clear that those who feed the fentanyl supply chain cannot hide behind the façade of legitimate business.

When companies and employees—including those in the c-suite—knowingly fuel the fentanyl crisis, they will be held to account. 

We will expose them as drug traffickers.

So, let me be clear: the Justice Department will not rest or relent in investigating and prosecuting every link of the fentanyl supply chain, in every corner of the globe. There can be no safe haven. 

As we have seen in our efforts to combat terrorism and cybercrime, we do more when we move together. That’s why continued collaboration with Mexico is crucial—and why we have dedicated more resources to support Mexico’s frontline fentanyl prosecutors.

And that’s why we’re strengthening our efforts to stem the southbound flow of illicit, high-powered firearms across our southern border—firearms that fuel violence in Mexico and empower cartels to expand their deadly drug trade back into the United States. 

And that’s why we will continue to call on the Chinese government to hold PRC companies accountable for the global harm they are causing.

As today’s charges allege, those charged knew that they were breaking Chinese law—as well as our own.

More broadly, compelling evidence shows that PRC companies are selling vast quantities of precursor chemicals to the drug cartels.  

The United States has urged the PRC to address the serious problem of illicit synthetic drug production and trafficking. We renew that call today.

This is a global problem that demands a global solution.   

Finally, I want to say a word about the role of social media.

In these indictments, the precursor sellers brazenly advertised on social media platforms. 

The Department has encouraged social media platforms to enforce their terms of service and remove this content.

We have encouraged social media platforms to work with us to address this public safety emergency.

We will continue to work with these companies so that they can better police their own platforms until they no longer serve as superhighways of drug trafficking.  Several major platforms are now working productively with us on this, and we urge those who are not to join the fight.

Today’s actions are the result of the hard work of the women and men of the DEA, and the tenacious prosecutors from the Eastern and Southern Districts of New York.

It is a privilege to work with them.

Let me now turn to the DEA Administrator to offer some more details on this investigation.

